How do you get a new product off the
ground? And when you're just starting
out, where do those first real users
actually come from? You see, most people
aren't early adopters. Ask yourself, how
many products do you use today that you
were among the first 10 users of? For
most people, the answer is zero. Almost
no one wants to be a startup's first
paying customer. Yet, every great
product still manages to find a few
people willing to take that leap. The
earliest version of your product only
needs to do one thing. survive contact
with a tiny group of people who might
actually try it. You're not building the
final form. You're building something
that can evolve. When you're starting
out, you don't just need a minimum
viable product. You need a minimum
evolvable product. And I'm going to show
you how to find one.
Before you get discouraged, there are
people who love being early adopters.
One of my colleagues, Gustaf, worked at
Airbnb for years and enjoyed trying out
products from startups and bringing them
into the company. Others have such a
burning issue that they're willing to
give any new product a shot if it looks
like it could make their life easier.
For example, when my team needed to ship
our first inference API, we wanted to
ship it fast and didn't want to deal
with figuring out billing or public
endpoint. Within 3 days, I found and
paid a startup whose product solved that
issue for us. I was their first
customer. Their size or reputation
didn't matter. Our problem did, so we
took a chance on them, and they
delivered. The lesson is simple. Finding
your first users is more of a search
problem than a persuasion problem.
You're looking for the Gustafs and
Ankits of the world, the ones who try
new things or have a burning need that
you can solve. This has a few
counterintuitive implications that
you're going to want to pay attention
to. Charge real money early. Early
adopters and people with a burning
problem are rarely price sensitive. The
goal here isn't revenue, it's feedback,
and paying customers give sharper
feedback than free users ever will.
You're more likely to get feedback from
an angry customer paying a lot of money
than a nobody who isn't willing to pay.
Use targeted personal outreach. The ways
you find these people probably don't
look like how you find normal people. A
billboard is way less likely to reach
them versus something like a targeted
cold email or a knock on their door.
Launch early. This is something YC has
preached from the beginning. In the
early days, you don't know much about
who these early users are, and [music]
you want to engineer a wide surface area
for them to find you. Study your early
users closely. You should be like an
anthropologist that's [music] discovered
a hidden civilization. How do they make
decisions? Why would they make the
strange choice to trust you? You want to
understand how they think and what they
want. Experiment fast and don't fear
churn. You should be running constant
experiments, pricing, landing pages,
onboarding, features, everything. At the
same time, talk to your early users and
try to make them love the product. But
don't stress if you lose one of them. If
you annoy someone, you can usually fix
it because the relationship is personal.
And if they churn, that's fine, too.
There are plenty of others who haven't
even heard of you yet. This is one of
the advantages startups have over big
companies. When you run a bad
experiment, no one writes about it.
You're fighting irrelevance, not
headlines. All of this may shape who
you're even building for in the
beginning. Most people don't pay for a
bunch of consumer apps. The average
personal software spend is [music]
pretty tiny. For example, mine's about
$150 a month total. Meanwhile, my
corporate card has multiple tools that
each cost more than that alone. In the
AI era, that gap matters. Consumer apps
can struggle because ads often don't
cover AI costs and subscriptions have to
squeeze into an already small personal
budget. Of course, many consumer
companies will still be made, but this
is why many AI founders choose to start
by selling to proumers or businesses or
targeting users like doctors that have
high advertising value. This leads us to
an even bigger point. Your early users
don't just give you feedback. They end
up steering how your product evolves
over time. Here's an analogy I use to
help founders think about their first
users. Think of a startup as a
phoggenetic tree. Okay, bear with me.
The root nodes in amoeba and the leaf
nodes are complex multisellular
organisms like humans or dogs. Almost
every product you buy on the market has
run this evolutionary process and morph
from an amoeba to the maturity of a
human or a dog. Millions of users, a
refined sales pitch, and clear value.
Early startups are more like amiebas.
They have just the very basic functions
needed to get exposed to external
pressures. But from there, the founders
run an evolutionary search through the
tree of potential future directions.
Consider Tesla as a case study,
specifically their amoeba, the Tesla
Roadster. The lore about the Roadster is
that Tesla needed a high margin product
to fund their capex investment to make
the Model S and eventually the Model 3
and Y. That's probably true, but there's
a second interpretation. Tesla was
searching for early adopters. They
wanted to find the people crazy enough
to buy an impractical $150,000 car that
didn't go very far, didn't fit much in
it, couldn't publicly charge anywhere,
and looked strange. Tesla's story
reveals another reality. that product
evolution is path dependent on what the
early adopters wanted. Why does the
Tesla Model Y, a mass market vehicle,
have a faster 0 to 60 than a Lamborghini
and better tech than a BMW, but worse
suspension and comfort than a Toyota? It
turns out that early adopters cared much
more about tech and acceleration than
comfort. Would a mass market vehicle
designed in a vacuum have a 0 to 60 of
under 3 seconds? Probably not. But it's
an outcome of the search algorithm that
Tesla ran. If early adopters were
willing to pay $150,000 for a slow,
plush vehicle, I bet Tesla's cars would
look very different today. This is the
algorithm we help founders run at YC.
And it's why your first version
shouldn't just be a minimum viable
product. It should be a minimum
evolvable product. Something simple that
can respond to market pressures and
evolve into a much more mature product.
Something that will survive contact with
early users and adapt fast based on what
they push it toward. It's freeing to
know that the product will change a lot,
so it doesn't have to be perfect from
the start. Ultimately, what it becomes
will depend on where you begin and who
you begin it with.